# FAQ

## Is Dark Forest pay to win?

Currently only hat transactions go to support the developrs. They make NO money on any other transactions and in fact airdrop a ~5c of xdai to you as part of your whitelist key so you can play the game a bit to check it out. The Dark Forest team so far has shown no interest in selling ways to win more/faster. However you do need to understand that most/all blockchains acheive their decentralized goals through incentives and libertarian marketplaces. Libertarian markets are by definition pay to win. You have to pay to have your transaction included in the block, and when congestion occurs you have the freedom to either wait as long as necessary until the price falls, or pay more to have it included. Ideally blockchain scaling solutions will reduce the *percentage of time* blockchains are congested, but by defintion they are marketplaces and the thing they offer you is the freedom to choose if you would like to pay transact at this moment in time.

## Why doesnt Dark Forest use XXXX chain?

The best way to explain what differentiates blockchains is the "blockchain trilemma" Blockchains need to be "Decentralized, Scalable, and Secure" (where cheap is part of scalable) Its impossible to have 100% of each of these. So each blockchain moves the dials around and sacrifices a little of one for the other. The developers are certainly aware of the blockchain ecosystem and are always trying to plan for the future. However the fact is switching chains costs developer time which takes away from features and bug fixing.  Only time will tell who survives and where Dark Forest will end up.